# Refactor v1: Unified Drive <> Document

### Impetus:

- Documents must be able to belong to 0 to many drives.
- Reactor, storage, listener, and sync systems all have a ton of custom code for drives.
  - Eg - `addDocumentOperations` v `addDriveOperations`.
- We need to add expanded query support (eg - `getDocument` by revision, `getDocuments` of type, etc).
- Current storage implementations are allowed to have very different behavior. This puts a high burden on consumers of the interface, both compromising the abstraction and moving complexity onto the consumers.
  - Eg - A number of optional functions on the interfaces (like `getOperationResultingState`) means the consumer has to test the interface and provide different logic to consume it.

### High Level Plan:

- **Decouple drive, document, and sync storage.**
  - **~~Migrate document-related API** from `IStorage` to simplified `IDocumentStorage` interface.~~
    - **~~Prerequisite**: Move operation-related API to `IDocumentStorage`.~~
    - ~~Wire up `IStorage` calls to `IDocumentStorage` under the hood.~~
    - ~~Once stable and tested, change calls from one to the other.~~
  - **~~Migrate drive-related API** from `IDriveStorage` interface to simplified `IDocumentStorage` interface.~~
    - **~~Prerequisite**: Remove special handling of `"drives"` document drive (which is a made up drive that secretly stores documents of type `document-drive`).~~
    - **~~Prerequisite**: Schema changes to merge `document` and `drive` at the storage layer.~~
      - ~~This is so that we don’t have to keep special case objects and relationships.~~
      - ~~Move `slug` from `drive` to `document`.~~
      - ~~Move many-to-many relationship from `drive` to `document`.~~
    - ~~Wire up drive calls to document interface.~~
    - ~~Once stable and tested, change calls from one to the other.~~
  - **Migrate sync-related API** from `IStorage` to `ISyncStorage`.
  - **Pull drive ids out of `ISynchronizationManager`.**
    - This might need to happen up front.
  - **Migrate `IListenerManager` to use document ids**.
    - This is just a rename from `driveId` → `documentId`, as they are really the same thing at this point.
  - Remove Sync Units related state/operations from Document Drive document model.
- **~~Expand query interface.~~**
  - ~~Add / mutate API to support additional end-user feature set.~~
- **~~Consolidate as many implementations as possible on top of PG Lite.~~**
  - Prisma, browser, and memory at a minimum.
  - Consider file-system adapter long-term as well.
    - We could potentially store as flat files using a similar approach that the browser implementation does: plug in to the backend of PG and write in a special way.
